Now, he did lie to cover this up, which
is
pretty bad. You know, it just kind of
gives some shades of Anthony Fouchy,
like once you once you lie to us and
then you say, "Hey, trust me. You know,
I'm a scientist." It's like, "Well, but
you lied, so I don't trust you." [music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective beyond many YouTube
influencers.
So today I would like to encourage
anyone who's interested to read my PhD
dissertation. The reason is uh recently
there has been some controversy over I
won't mention names but you guys will
probably be able to figure out who this
is. uh you know somebody had their
dissertation reviewed by some others and
it was guy with millions and millions of
followers and it turns out his
dissertation is pretty bad. I think
there was over 200 errors. There were
whole sections that were just duplicate
you know copy and paste which just
inflates the size of the document
clearly adds nothing looks more like a
mistake. And then the entire conclusion
was I think like bigger bigger muscles
are stronger muscles which is something
that was established in science decades
before. I don't believe it's the most
fair thing to do to judge somebody's
quality as a scientist just on their
dissertation. Cuz remember you do your
dissertation
when you're a new scientist. It's the
first thing. It's sort of like your
training paper. And there's a reason why
they want it to be exhaustive. These
these papers have to be very detailed.
Uh there are often hundreds of pages.
And the reason for that is you want the
individual to understand what academic
rigor is and be able to produce an
example of creating that level of rigor
in their own analysis so that all
variables are considered. so that
one can learn to communicate [music]
on on that level with other scientists.
So it's a training exercise. So the fact
that this guy I'm talking about, he
didn't have a great dissertation,
I mean the fact that he had a bad
dissertation is honestly more of a poor
reflection of the university than
anything. Not him. I mean if a student
gets hands in a bad paper and gets an A
for it, good for the student.
I mean that's just that's that's
academia. So yeah, I don't think he
should be blamed. Now he did lie to
cover this up which is
pretty bad. So like you know it just
kind of gives some shades of Anthony
Fouchy like once you once you lie to us
and then you say hey trust me you know
I'm a scientist. It's like well but you
lied so I don't trust you. So, uh,
that's too bad. But I will say that if
you read my dissertation, you'll
probably be impressed. If not, you won't
find blistering mistakes or or wonder
why the document was created in the
first place. Uh, it's u the dissertation
is on my website, drj.com, d oct r the
letter j.com,
and you can download it right there. Uh,
go ahead and give it a read. I don't
think it's the most exciting document
because as I said these things are
required to be very exhaustive in detail
and for what I was studying it was bone
loading in the post-menopausal
population and and the adaptations that
come from loading of the bone. So this
was um
an analysis looking at how we can get
the proper strategy for loading of long
bones of the body. So loading on its
axis. Uh so end to end if we're talking
about my my uh humors. You take all
those things into consideration and
put together the best analysis. Try and
think of all the possible variables, all
the questions that could be asked and
address them. Also uh and I do this I
learned this from my PhD adviser who
told me always lead with the weaknesses
of the data. explain what you don't have
before you explain what you have.
Because that way, if you start off that
way, you can't be accused of hiding
those weaknesses. You open with the
weaknesses. It gives nobody like you
take all of your the people who showed
up with pitchforks and torches to come
after you. You kind of take their
weapons away from them. like, "Oh, well,
he just he just admitted the thing I was
going to bring up, so it's like I can't
really bring anything up now." And
that's just a better way to be because
you're it's accuracy. It's you're just
delivering here's the information we
have and here's what we can get out of
that information. And you know, if
there's data to the contrary, you must
explain there's data to the contrary and
potentially theorize why there's data to
the contrary or there are tests that are
being run on the same subject and
different outcomes exist. You can
definitely theorize why that is, but you
have to acknowledge if there are two
sides to an argument that there are two
sides to an argument. You'll be able to
see that and understand my dissertation.
Also, if you happen to do this, and it
is a very long document. I think it's
250 pages. When you read this thing, you
will probably understand why
I was driven towards the Louis Simmons
approach to variable resistance because
everything I discovered showed amazing
things about loading the body in the
strongest position. So like here, like
when I'm in this position, back of the
hand in line with the clavicle, 120
degree angle from upper to lower arm, I
can either produce or absorb the
greatest amount of force in this
specific position. So the research goes
on to identify the positions that we
naturally absorb impact in a fall. Those
are the highest levels of loading that
come into the body. And so we look at
these different positions which are
typically documented in gymnastics
because gymnastics is a very repeatable
activity. So the process of dismount
from the uneven bars which is the
greatest level of loading that will go
through the hip joint. This sometimes
enables people to achieve 10 times their
body weight and loading through that
joint and that musculature. the the
world record squat
last I checked was right around four
times body weight. Uh and also the
minimum dose response for stimulating
bone density growth in the hip is 4.2
multiples of body weight. So the the
world record in the heavyweight category
doesn't even exceed the minimum dose for
bone loading. But of course I happen to
know the individual I'm talking about.
His name is Matt Wenning at a 300 lb
body weight. He had a,200 lb squat. He's
done [music] a DEXA scan. He does not
have low bone density even though he
doesn't achieve that peak loading in his
squat. So where is he getting it? Well,
he's getting it from high impact. But
what my dissertation was about was
creating
the loading [music] events in a safe and
controlled manner. So by very short
range type exercise that really just
focus on getting as much force through
the joint when it's at that optimized
120° angle position [music]
and that geometry is echoed all
throughout the body. I think if you
bother to give it a read, you'll like
it. Uh make sure to ask me any questions
about [music] it in the comments and
I'll see you on the next one. If this
video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people. Especially if you're one of
those people [music] that doesn't just
instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.
[music]